[Music]
have you ever been on a subway station
on a cold night and seen someone
shivering because they don't own a
jacket or how about standing in line at
the supermarket behind someone who
doesn't have enough money to buy what
they have in their cart all around the
world there are people who have fallen
on rough times and can't make ends meet
well I knew I didn't have a whole lot to
spare myself I knew that there had to be
some little things I could do to help
make these people's days a little
brighter and you can too it all started
when I was watching TV one day with my
sister we were watching a special about
the holidays and how so many people
without homes were going to food banks
and soup kitchens for a warm meal the
people reporting the story explained
that while there were always many people
volunteering their time to shelters
during the holidays many people no
longer helped out during the rest of the
year even though the need for their help
was just as great that's when it hit me
what could I do to help others in need
while my bank account wasn't exactly
equipped to do so I started researching
online to learn what I could do to help
I saw that many shelters and donation
centers were taking in used clothing
what a great excuse to go through my
things and get rid of items I didn't
wear anymore I dived into my closet and
found blouses jeans and dresses that I
had mourning years and that were in
great condition I googled different
donation bins around the city and found
a map of them turns out there was one
just a mile away from me there are also
organizations out there that take office
attire and donate it to people who are
getting back on their feet and looking
for new jobs but can't afford new
clothes you can find all these great
programs online while donating clothing
is a great thing to do I knew that being
hungry was probably one of the hardest
things to go through I always have three
meals every day and I can't imagine what
it must be like to not have that luxury
I really do take it for granted I was
eating at a restaurant around closing
time one night when my husband noticed
the kitchen was taking out tons of food
to the trash and not just a bag
food there were five massive trash bags
being filled to the brim with bread
meats cheeses and more I wondered why
they just threw it all away like that
when there were so many people on the
streets who could use it
I jumped online and found a couple of
apps that connect you with restaurants
that offer day-old food at a discounted
price you can pick it up after the
restaurant closes for the day I chose
one nearby and brought up all empty bags
with me sure enough I paid less than
half what it all cost her in opening
hours and filled up all my bags with
food there was only a day old and
perfectly fine to eat a friend and I
drove around downtown and headed out
food to people sitting out on the street
they were so thankful just think all
that food was going to end up in the
garbage if you're unable to take the
time to pick up food from a restaurant
at night there's a much simpler way you
can help someone have a meal the next
time you go to a restaurant and see
someone sitting outside of it asking for
money tell them that you have some money
to spare and would love to buy them a
hot meal if you feel comfortable have
them come into the restaurant with you
and order something it's such a simple
way to help someone out while clothing
and food are an obvious problem for
those in need I never thought about what
other things they need on a day to day
basis that they just can't have take
homeless women for example they have no
way to buy the basic health care
products they need every month I got a
group of girls together one night and we
packed little bags of feminine products
books and other little items I found
tons of these at the dollar store so
when we all chipped in a bit we were
able to get a lot of items if you feel
comfortable doing so you can hand these
care packages out to women on the street
who are in need or you can look up
shelters that are taking those types of
donations according to the Committee on
health care for underserved women
there's a higher rate of unplanned
pregnancies in homeless women but they
don't have access to proper prenatal
care
that means that complications during
births are also more common there are a
couple of national organizations you can
donate money to that help women find
health care clinics and professionals to
help them while all of these helpful
gestures I just mentioned are great
sometimes it's the simpler things that
make a difference try smiling at someone
who looks like they're having a rough
time for someone who is begging for
money on the street seeing someone stop
and acknowledge them can mean everything
they often feel invisible watching
people walk past them again and again
take a moment to give this person a
smile even if you have no money to give
want to take things a step further try
sitting down and talking to them ask
them how they are doing just taking the
time to listen to their story and be
there for them even if it's just for a
few minutes can really make a difference
sometimes all a person needs is someone
to talk to who will listen to them and
who knows you may even learn something
if you happen to pass someone on the
street who doesn't look like they're
feeling well or looks like they could
use some medical attention but it's not
necessarily an emergency dial 3 1 1 and
ask for help
300 line in America that exists to help
keep the emergency hotline 911
situations simply dial 3 1 1 and ask for
someone to come out and check on the
person it's super easy and you don't
even have to talk to the person in need
if you're not comfortable doing so just
hang around to make sure someone comes
and helps them if you're able to another
easy way to give to people in need is to
redirect your own gifts to be totally
honest I wasn't sure about this idea at
first it would mean giving up all my
birthday gifts to help those in need
but after thinking about it I realized
that I already had everything I needed I
wasn't missing out on anything so on my
27th birthday I asked my friends and
family to please hold off on buying me
anything in
said I requested that they choose a
charity they liked and donate whatever
they would have spent on me to the
organization instead this is such an
easy way to give back and I didn't have
to do a thing if you'd like to donate
money every once in a while but just
can't try budgeting the expense into
your monthly spending my brother-in-law
does this and always hasn't changed to
spare when he sees someone asking for
money on the street even if it's just
five or ten bucks if you set it aside to
spend just like you would rent or
grocery money you'll have a little every
month to donate you won't even have to
think about it I know that sometimes it
feels like so many people in the world
need so much and how could you possibly
do enough to help but the truth is all
it takes is something little if everyone
in the world would help out in small
ways every once in a while it would
really make a difference so next time
you see someone in need or have the urge
to be helpful act on it it's simply the
right thing to do wouldn't you want
someone to do that for you what simple
things do you do to help others who are
less fortunate than you are tell us
about it in the comments maybe you can
encourage others to do the same don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay on the bright side